## Using with Aidbox

### 1. Start Aidbox Server

_You can skip this step if you already have Aidbox running._

You can run Aidbox in various environments: locally on your computer, on a cloud server, or on an on-premises server. If
you choose to run it locally on your machine, use the following commands:

```bash
mkdir aidbox && cd aidbox
curl -JO https://aidbox.app/runme && docker compose up
```

For more details, consult the [Getting Started](https://docs.aidbox.app/getting-started) page.

**Note**: Whether running Aidbox locally, on a cloud server, or on-premises, ensure that you specify the correct URL to
your Aidbox instance in the steps that follow.

### 2. Create a Client in Aidbox

Open Aidbox REST Console and run the following request to create a new Client:

```http request
POST /Client
Accept: text/yaml
Content-Type: text/yaml

id: smart-launcher-v2
secret: eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJ
grant_types:
  - basic
```

### 3. Start SMART Launcher

Run docker container with the following command:

```bash 
docker run --rm \
  --name smart-launcher-v2 \
  -e FHIR_SERVER_R4="http://host.docker.internal:8080/fhir" \
  -e FHIR_SERVER_R4_BASIC_AUTH="c21hcnQtbGF1bmNoZXItdjI6ZXlKMGVYQWlPaUpLVjFRaUxDSmhiR2NpT2lK" \
  -p 8081:80 \
  ghcr.io/healthsamurai/smart-launcher-v2
```

Where:

1. `FHIR_SERVER_R4` specifies the URL of your Aidbox server. Here, `host.docker.internal` is used to allow the Docker
   container to connect to the Aidbox server if it’s running locally on your machine.
   This special hostname allows Docker containers to access services on the host machine (your computer) by mapping to
   its IP address.
   If Aidbox is running on a cloud or on-premises server, replace http://host.docker.internal:8080/fhir with the full
   URL of your Aidbox instance.
2. `FHIR_SERVER_R4_BASIC_AUTH` is the Base64-encoded authorization token required by the SMART Launcher to connect to
   Aidbox. This token is generated by encoding the format client_id:client_secret
   (from the client you created in Step 2) in Base64.
    * For example, if your client ID is `smart-launcher-v2` and the secret is `eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJ`, the Base64
      encoding of `smart-launcher-v2:eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJ` will be used for `FHIR_SERVER_R4_BASIC_AUTH`.
    * This Base64 token allows the SMART Launcher to authenticate with Aidbox using basic authentication.

### 4. Launch SMART App

Open SMART App Launcher web interface at http://localhost:8081 and follow the instructions on the page to launch a your
SMART App.
